# Sparkify PostgreSQL ETL

The following project is part of UDACITY - Data Engineer Nanodegree. It consist in creating an ETL from data sources stored in JSON to a PostgreSQL database. 


### Project Description

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project. Your role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

### Datasources

##### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

##### Song Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month.


### Execution Instructions

1. Execute **create_tables.py** to: drop tables if exist, then create the tables again. (Caution, it will delete all existing data).
2. Execute **etl.py** to run the etl.


### Output tables

#### Fact Table
 
**SONGPLAYS** - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

#### Dimension Tables

**USERS** - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

**SONGS**  - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

**ARTISTS** - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude

**TIME** - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

